Let's go.
We are at our final code.
I'm so proud of everybody.
We're gonna draw our view here,
our web page.
The output pixels,
technically their pixels being
displayed to the graphics card.
They're automatically produced by
our layout and render engine from our C++
implementation of those
elements as a list,
technically as an object in C++,
there it is.
And there it is.
And that's a full description in
list form or technically object form of
the elements that show up on the page
that will automatically display.
If we could write C++ code today's and
yesterday's session,
wouldn't have mattered, but we can't.
And so we are going to have to
lean on JavaScript to do so.
Here it is.
There's a JavaScript on this side,
C++ on this side.
We initially loading our app.html.
Do we need to draw that again?
You know what?
I've enjoyed this so much.
Now we're so close to the end, I just
wanna drag out the last few minutes for
us because, yeah, there it is.
Our app.html is loaded into
our web browser's HTML parser.
I actually often get that feeling as we
get towards the end of hard parts in front
of I'm like, we've done so much,
I don't even want it to end.
And so then we have HTML parser takes
those elements, then we list out and
put some in this C++ something that we
list out in HTML and put them in the C++.
Honestly, we don't list out
any elements anymore, right?
Because we do not want to really have
anything displayed to the user that
is not tracked, mirroring underlying
state in a single source of truth,
not HTML that then you can't switch on and
off from there anyway.
And so you've now got an auto on source
of truth for all those elements that you
might later then switch off and
the user change what they see as a result,
but you've got one source of the data
that represents them in HTML.
And now you're gonna have it in,
no, just put it all in JavaScript.
That's gonna be your source of truth.
That's gonna be your data on which
everything the user sees depends.
And when they take action to change
what they see, you're changing that
data in JavaScript, including
whether to show a div or not, okay?
And then we have our JavaScript
engine with that in mind, switch on.
It has a memory and
it has the ability to affect
this C++ list that produces
our final rendered
image of the page by the layout and
render engine.
And then we also have a bunch of other
features in the web browser like timer,
that we can access again from JavaScript.
And when doing their work, we'll not block
the JavaScript thread from executing code.
Beautiful, there it is.
Okay, it's gonna have on it, by default,
a body element that represents the entire
page to which we can add things.
And then in JavaScript,
we have our memory.
Phil, if you don't mind again,
just telling us the first
thing that's in that memory?
>> Yeah, the document object.
>> Yeah, and that's loaded there.
Whenever the host, the place that is
running JavaScript, is the web browser.
There it is.
Okay, and it has a link to where?
>> A DOM.
>> To our DOM, yeah, essentially to our DOM.
Exactly right, there it is.
And it also has a bunch of useful
functions, getter/setter properties.
What is the functions
that we're using here?
>> That would be-
>> We want to create some elements, and
we want to-
>> Create element?
>> Yep, beautiful.
I'm assuming you've seen that somewhere?
No, sorry, you know where it is?
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> It is in the collapse.
Don't try and click on that, there it is.
But I was glad that you all were like,
I know where it is, cuz that suggests it's
not too bad that we have collapsed that
bit, we do know what it does, right?
It does all the work of taking that
description from the array in JavaScript
and producing the actual DOM element and
the accessor object.
So hopefully we are clear
on that at this point.
Okay, now we're gonna have a call
stack down here, all this set up, right?
Call stack down here and
our callback queue, Here,
and then the event loop that determines
whether the call stack is empty and all
global code is finished running, such that
we can add functions to the call stack.
Okay, let's, Phil, if you don't mind,
get started there with our, well, piece of
state, our piece of data in JavaScript
from which all of this is gonna propagate.
>> Yeah, so first thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna declare our name variable, and
initialize it to the empty string.
>> Beautiful, and then the next,
again, line, really here, but
I put a semicolon to just-
>> Yeah.
>> Condense it.
>> Yeah,
we'll be declaring our VDOM variable.
>> And usually here we're gonna
immediately go about actually assigning it
based on our initial state.
And that's just for the ordering
of this code to work and do so
as tightly as possible.
So let's do that.
What's gonna be the output
with this state,
with this data in our
VDOM global variable?
>> You're gonna go through
the return values.
>> Yeah, return value.
So we know we're gonna call Create VDOM,
inside we're gonna fill in
the dynamic data name with actual values,
yeah, so take it away.
>> It'll be an array with three subarrays,
that first element will
be a string of input.
The next element will be an empty string.
>> Yeah, perfect.
>> And then the third element
will be the function handle.
>> Fantastic, empty string and
function handle.
Again, I really like that I am able to
sort of do these in a random order cuz I
can visually see them there in JavaScript.
And that kind of gives me a preview of
just how it will look in my page as well.
So the next one is?
>> Next one will have the first
element string of div,
second element, the string hello.
>> I did it.
Okay, yeah, exactly.
Brilliant, exactly.
Perfect, and then we have our
previous VDOM label created.
So help me with this, Phil.
>> Global memory,
we declare a previous VDOM.
>> VDOM, nothing assigned, but
I have a feeling we're gonna end
up having it point to this or
at least the elements of this object.
And probably the way we are gonna
end up doing it in my diagram,
is probably just moving
this label up here, and
having it, what we know in practices
this is actually re-labeling.
I think it's gonna create,
when we end up doing it, a brand new array
that's going to have all these elements
in it, and then this previous VDOM.
Do you see in Line 18 when
you end up doing this?
We're gonna have previous
VDOM be a new array with
the sub-elements of VDOMS
spread into that new array.
In practice,
I'm gonna put the word previous VDOM here,
[LAUGH] cuz that's good enough.
Okay, and then last declaration there,
Phil, is?
>> Elems variable,
>> Beautiful, and we'll see that that
hopefully is gonna have a list of objects
that could have corresponding DOM elements
in C++, and then hopefully, instead,
corresponding pixel on the page.
Perfect, let's declare a bunch of
functions, right, that's next.
>> First we're gonna declare
a create VDOM function, which,
I don't know if we have that in there yet.
>> Well, which we use, forgive me,
by the way,
we use that cuz of the hoisting, right?
So we're able to use any of these
functions as soon as, wherever we want,
even above where they're defined, because
function keyword ensures they're all
available throughout
the whole file of code.
Probably a legacy JavaScript feature,
but one that's quite nice for
here just in terms of readability.
I can't figure out how
I'm gonna fit that on.
So I think I'm going to get rid of
this here so that we have room and
maybe draw it either a bit further down or
something else.
I'm not sure, we'll figure it out.
But yeah, let's put him on here.
What are our functions, if you don't mind?
>> Create VDOM.
>> Handle.
>> Yeah, so create VDOM is gonna be
the one that, well, we just did it right,
takes our data and creates our JavaScript
representation with the real data in it,
beautiful.
Next one was the handler function
handle that's actually already stored
up here on the specific JavaScript
representation of that element.
That's going to appear on the real C++ DOM
when we convert these elements one by one.
So there's our handler.
And on that note, here's our big
old function to do all the work.
This is called what, Phil?
>> Update DOM.
>> Update DOM, the next one?
>> Convert.
>> This is our function that we
haven't even shown here, but
it's exactly what we had before.
I hope that's okay, people.
That's just to save space,
you can see there was no room.
But this is taking an array
of three elements here,
input, empty string, and handle, and
producing a DOM element type
input with an accessor object
to get links to that corresponding
DOM element in C++, okay?
And then the final function here is?
>> Find div.
>> Thank you so much.
And there it is.
And that's gonna do
the work of figuring out,
do we actually have to
update the real DOM?
And then let's put our call stack here.
And then maybe we can have our queue,
not to imply it's outside of JavaScript,
but there's our callback
queue to the right.
There we go.
All right, and the event loop will check.
Okay, good.
All right, finally we hit what, Phil?
>> We execute the set interval
function passing to it the arguments
of the update DOM,
function definition, and 15.
>> Update DOM, function definition, and
the 15 milliseconds as the interval.
And that's gonna set up
an interval over here with 15
milliseconds, and the update DOM function,
I need to get my energy backup,
update DOM function.
Whoa, okay, nice, update DOM function.
And 15 milliseconds later, well, yeah,
it's gonna run many, many times.
Now we want to actually go and grab it
all and stick them on the page, well,
on the condition that there's not yet
any elements on the page.
Someone's gonna do it.
Consider this the mounting
of the elements.
So heard that term before?
Okay,